# The repository contains molecular dynamics simulations data presented in the publication "Structural and Functional Characterization of the L72S Leptin Mutant: Implications for Congenital Leptin Deficiency"

## 1. Research summary:

Congenital leptin deficiency, a form of monogenic childhood obesity, is primarily caused by mutations in the LEP gene, which encodes for the expression of a hormone called leptin. Even though these mutations generally impairs leptin protein synthesis or secretion, their biological activities might still remain intact. To validate this hypothesis, we employed in silico simulation techniques including multiple molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and free energy computations to investigate the structure and activity of the leptin protein carrying a mutation (L72S) associated with congenital leptin deficiency.

Previous experimental findings illustrated that the mutant L72S leptin is synthesized but not secreted into circulation. Our computational data from leptin folding free energy computations and wild-type (WT)/mutant (MT) leptin's multi atomistic MD simulations revealed that the L72S mutation, despite destabilizing the leptin structure, does not disrupt the protein's tertiary conformation. Furthermore, free energy of binding calculations together with coarse-grained MD simulations of the WT and MT 3:3 leptin-Leptin receptor extracellular domain suggested that the mutant protein still retains its binding affinity for the receptor. The result indicated that method of inducing endogenous secretion of the mutant leptin could possibly become a new therapeutic strategy against congenital leptin deficiency. Finally, the semi-automated simulation workflow and the Python-based analysis framework developed in this study may be broadly applicable for elucidating the effects of other disease-related mutations on leptin, as well as on the structure and function of various protein systems beyond leptin.

## 2.Repository structure
